Project Proposal
As an international student from China, I need to exchange Chinese currency (CNY) into USD to pay my tuition fee, rent and food. Therefore, the exchange rate between CNY and USD matters to me a lot. For example, for international graduate student, the tuition fee each is about 30000 USD. Normally, the rate for exchange CNY into USD is around 6.7 which mean 6.7 CNY equal to 1 USD. If the exchange rate drops to 6.6, for 30000 USD, I can just instantly save 3000 CNY. On the contrary, if the exchange rate rises from 6.7 to 6.8, I need to pay more 3000 CNY instantly instead. Thus, if I can pick a good timing to exchange CNY into USD, I can easily save a lot of money.
If I need to pick up a good timing, I need to make some prediction based on previous currency exchange rate. In this class, I will use GM (1,1) which means first order grey model with one parameter to predict the currency exchange rate.
In the paper “Forecasting the Exchange Rate between ASEAN Currencies and USD.”, they use this model to predict the exchange rate between USD and currencies of some southeast Asian countries. In this project, I will use the same method to predict the currency exchange rate between CNY and USD, EUR and USD. After making the prediction of the exchange rate, I will testify the accuracy of the results.
Reference:
Tien-Chin Wang, Su-Hui Kuo, and Hui-Chen Chen. "Forecasting the Exchange Rate between ASEAN Currencies and USD." 2011 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Engineering and Engineering Management (2011): 699-703. Web.
Deng, J. L., “Introduction to Grey system theory,” The Journal of Grey System, vol.1, No.1, pp.1-24, 1989.
