Today, the underlying physics that govern the performance of modern biomass cookstoves are largely unkown, leaving many modern advancements of cookstove design to be informed by inneficient and costly "trial and error" based experimental efforts. Poviding an accurate and accessible computational fluid dynamics (CFD) software package could serve as a helpful tool for cookstove designers. The goal of the present work is to create a software package that will perform a design optimization analysis based on results of automated steady state CFD analysis given a user-imported geometry. The package will return a set of results related to the performance of the cookstove for each of the potenetial configurations analyzed. More specifically, the results will present the composition of the product gas exiting the specific cookstove configuration under scrutiny.

The expected inputs are as follows: a single 2-dimensional cookstove geometry, steady state power produced by the combustion process (based on existing literature), and an initial secondary air flow mechanism (flow rate, height, diameter). Four standalone models will be run, and will be used to assess the fitness of the intial model by comparing the relative emission content. Following the comparison, an algorithm will be implemented to alter the inlet conditions of the initial stove to, presumably, approach an improved geometry. The process will be an iterative comparison of the data sets produced, requiring the majority of time spent on postprocessing efforts. The outputs for an individual simulation are expected to include species compostion at the cookstove exit, and temperature profile and flow field within the combustion chamber. The overall output of the program will be a recommendation for optimal geometry, along with relavent model results for each consecutive simulation. The relevant exising work within the biomass cookstove modelling domain, and the window which makes the present study novel are as follows.

There is a small handful of existing peer-reviewed publications related to cookstove CFD modelling which will serve as support for the physical model and assumptions used in the present study. Pundle et al. presented a 2-dimensional, axisymetric, steady state CFD model of a natural draft cookstove with coupled sub-models for combustion, turbulence, and heat transfer. Additionally, Miller-Loinberg produced a high-resolution 3-dimensional transient CFD model of a natural draft biomass cookstove. The existing numerical models are specific to individual cookstove models and are, therefore, limited in their long-term impact within the cookstove design community. The long-term impact of the models released by the academic community could be greatly improved by providing an open source and user friendly analytical tool with a gentle learning curve that could be used to model a multitude of cookstove geometries.

The OpenFoam-V6 software will be used to run the fluid flow simulations; OpenFoam version 6 is free to public use and has a large existing Python library, called PyFoam, which will be used to setup models, run simulations, and analyze result of the CFD runs. Modules and functions will be created and tested using the Anaconda development software. Graphical User Interface development will not be included in the scope of the project.
