Project Proposal

As an international student from China, I need to exchange Chinese currency (CNY) into USD to pay my tuition fee, rent and food. Therefore, the exchange rate between CNY and USD matters to me a lot. For example, for international graduate student, the tuition fee each is about 30000 USD. Normally, the rate for exchange CNY into USD is around 6.7 which mean 6.7 CNY equal to 1 USD. If the exchange rate drops to 6.6, for 30000 USD, I can just instantly save 3000 CNY. On the contrary, if the exchange rate rises from 6.7 to 6.8, I need to pay more 3000 CNY instantly instead. Thus, if I can pick a good timing to exchange CNY into USD, I can easily save a lot of money.

Moreover, I can make money from it. If I find that in a period, the exchange rate goes up, then I will store USD and sell it when the exchange rate begins to go down. Also, if I find in a period, the exchange rate goes down, I will store CNY and sell it when the exchange rate begins to go up.

To illustrate this clearly, I want to make an example. Assume the exchange rate between CNY and USD in the last 10 hours like this way:
[6.7 6.8 6.9 6.95 6.91 6.88 6.8 6.72 6.68 6.72] For the first two hour, this project detect that the exchange rate is going up from 6.7 to 6.9, so it will buy some USD. But in the fourth hour, it detects that the rate is going down from 6.95 to 6.91, it will sell the USD that just bought. Then in the fifth hour, it detects that rate is going down from 6.91 to 6.88, so it will buy some CNY. Then in the sixth hour, it detects that rate is going from 6.68 to 6.72, so it will sell the CNY that just bought. After that, this project will do the same thing. As long as the exchange rate is not constant, this project will make action to gain a little profit. The output of this project is after a period of time, how much money it can make.

So far, the problem is that I am still trying to find a way to automatically buy/sell the currency online. If I cannot find a way, this project will be used to test the effectiveness of other trade strategies in stock, mental market by using historical data.

Some of people call it High frequency trading, for them, they will use much better system to detect the price change and do buying/selling action. In my opinion, we are doing almost same thing, but I am not sure whether those are exactly the same. I still need to find more information about it.
