# **Background**

   Multiphase flows appear in various real life situations. This project focuses
on gas-liquid flows in drilling industry.
   Due to geological reasons, there are reservoirs with pressurized fluids under
the Earth's surface which are spread randomly. When drilling a well (e.g, geo-
thermal or oil well), one can penetrate such a reservoir. Pressurized fluid then
enters the drilling annulus where it mixes with the drilling fluid (drilling
fluid is a fluid which is pumped through the drilling string into the drilling
annulus to wash out the cuttings). That's how a two phase flow can occur in the
annulus. Being highly pressurized, such a flow can damage the drilling facility
and even kill drillers (the most prominent example is "Deep water horizon").
   Therefore, influxes need to be detected as early as possible. The smallest
detection time can be achieved by real time multiphase flow modeling. Hence, a
fast and reasonably accurate mathematical model of multiphase flow should be
chosen from the existing pool of multiphase flow models. The chosen model is
called drift-flux model. It allows for quick computation and returns
sufficiently accurate results [1].
   When modeling an influx, one faces a problem of phase occurrence/vanishing.
It happens because an influx happens, there is a single phase flow of drilling fluid in the annulus. After
the influx occurs, there is a multiphase flow in the annulus.
   Drift-flux model's behavior in the event of phase occurrence/vanishing is not
explored much. For example, drift-flux model is used for influx modeling in [2].
But any exploration of appropriateness of its usage is not presented there.
Still, phase occurrence/vanishing  is the major part of influx modeling. Thus,
it was chosen to be explored in the project.

# **Statement of the problem**

   A drift-flux model of a steady air-liquid flow in a vertical pipe is chosen
to be a case flow for this project.
   Prior to the simulation, a mathematical
analysis of the model behavior in the event of gas phase vanishing will be done.
Revealed issues, if any, will be recorded. Ways of fixing the issues will be
developed.
   Then simulation will be done. The revealed issues will be proven. Then the
the ways of issues fixing will be tried and the most effective way will be
chosen. In case of no issues, simulation will be done to prove that the model
can handle the event of gaseous phase vanishing.
   This project is based on the research work done by the author and devoted to
transient influx modeling. During the work on transient influx modeling, a
transient drift-flux model was used and it was revealed that there are problems
with single to two phase flow transition. Hence, it is necessary to find and fix
that problems. It is the reason why the specified subject is chosen for the
current project.
   For the purposes of the current project, the code written for transient influx modeling will be rewritten for the case of steady flow. It will require
recreation of the numerical scheme from the beginning (transient drift-flux
model is a systme of PDEs, whereas steady drift-flux model is a system of ODEs).
Moreover, steady drift-flux model doesn't allow for influx modeling - it only
allows for manual altering between two and single phase flows. Hence, influx
modeling part will also be removed from the original code.
   Intended software will take as inputs flow parameters at the bottom of the
pipe (pressure, gas phase density, gas phase velocity and gas phase
concentration) and will return as outputs distribution of that parameters along
the pipe.
   The primary characteristic of the intended software will be its ability to
take as input zero gaseous phase concentration (i.e., to model a singe phase
flow).
   The code will be written in Python 3. The anticipated packages to be used are
matplotlib, pyqt5, numpy, scipy and math. Matplotlib will be used for plotting
results. But it proved to be very slow in some cases of wellbore flows modeling.
If such an issue were encountered, the pyqtgraph function of the pyqt5 package
would be used. It allows for relatively quick plotting of big sets of data.
   The resultant code can be used by researches who work with drift-flux models
to reliably model either a single or a two phase flow in a vertical pipe using
drift-flux model. Still, its main goal is to give an insight on how to make
transient drift-flux model be valid for both single and two phase flows.

# **References**
1. Aarsnes, U. J. F. (2016). *Modeling of two-phase flow for estimation and
   control of drilling operations.* PhD thesis, Norwegian University of Science
   and Technology.â€‹
2. Nikoofard, A., Aarsnes, U. J. F., Johansen, T. A., Kaasa, G. (2017). State
   and parameter estimation of a drift-flux model for under-balanced drilling
   operations. In *IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology*,
   pages 2000-2009.
